## Design Justification

When designing this project, one of the main design decisions we had to make was how to store the user’s location and determine where they could go next. Originally, we debated using a series of if statements to check the user’s location and input direction to determine their subsequent location. However, this method, while easier to understand conceptually, required significantly more lines of code, especially as we decided to add more biomes. Instead, we decided to use Guava to create a graph with nodes and edges that could be checked to determine the user’s location and where they could potentially go. This method was much harder to understand at first and required us to consult the Guava core libraries for Java to learn all the Guava methods that existed, and that could be helpful when analyzing user location and potential paths. However, once Guava was implemented, it was significantly easier to add new biomes than it would have been with if statements.

Another design choice we made was not to implement a timer. A timer system would have required the user to answer all the riddles correctly, which would have been challenging or even impossible depending on user background knowledge. To us, it made more sense for the user to collect as many animals/plants/monsters as possible and then give them points based on how many they found.

Our third major design choice was to add a lab class. We weren’t sure if we needed one until we wrote all the code for the lab in the game loop and realized that a separate lab class would keep the game loop from becoming too bogged down with lab code. Additionally, it made more sense to store the user’s inventory in the lab since the user’s inventory would be brought to the lab at the end of the game.
